Reinforcement learning is
actually not that old.
When I started back
in the mid 2000,
it was a lot different
than it is now.
There were only
a handful of labs around
the world that focused on
reinforcement learning.
Almost nobody was using
RL in the industry,
and the practical successes of RL
were limited to a handful
of applications.
Reinforcement learning
could fly a helicopter
upside down better
than any human could.
RL methods could beat the
world's best backgammon players,
and schedule elevators
pretty well.
But RL was not the best way to
get robots to do useful things,
and the idea that
a Q-learning agent could play
video games better than people
was almost unimaginable.
Yet we held out hope.
Hope because we thought
reinforce learning was
the best way to make
progress towards AI.
The promise of RL was almost
intoxicating that a
learning agent can figure
out how the world works by simply
trying things and
seeing what happens.
After all, that's what we
think people and animals do.
So why not simulate
that in a computer.
If we could do it, then
it would be useful in
almost any application and
as a nice side effect,
we might learn
a good deal about how
our own minds work too.
You might wonder what's
the difference between
supervised learning,
unsupervised learning, and
reinforcement learning?
The differences are quite simple.
In supervised learning we
assume the learner has
access to labeled examples
giving the correct answer.
In RL, the reward gives the agent
some idea of how good or bad
its recent actions were.
You can think of supervised
learning as requiring
a teacher that helps you
by telling you
the correct answer.
A reward on the other hand,
is like having someone
who can identify what
good behavior looks like
but can't tell you
exactly how to do it.
Unsupervised learning
sounds like it could be
related but really has
a very different goal.
Unsupervised learning is about
extracting underlying
structure in data.
It's about the data
representation.
It can be used to
construct representations
that make a supervised
or RL system better.
In fact, as you'll see
later in this course,
techniques from both
supervised learning and
unsupervised learning can be used
within RL to aid generalization.
In RL, we focus on
the problem of learning
while interacting with
an ever changing world.
We don't expect our agents
to simply compute
a good behavior and then execute
that behavior in
an open loop fashion.
We expect our agents
to get things wrong,
to refine their
understanding as they go.
The world is not a static place.
We get injured, the
weather changes,
and we encounter new situations
and our goals change.
An agent that
immediately integrates
its most recent
experience should do
well especially
compared with ones that
attempt to perfectly memorize
how the world works.
The idea of learning
online is extremely
powerful and is
a defining feature of RL.
The way we introduce concepts
is dictated by this fact.
For example, we
introduced the ideas
of bandits and exploration first,
and get ideas from
supervised learning later.
This might feel
backwards for you if
you have a background
in machine learning.
But as you'll see,
the hard part is learning online
rather than just
learning from data.
Getting comfortable
with the online setting
requires a new perspective.
Today, the field of
reinforce learning
feels like it's changing
at a breakneck pace.
There are almost
weekly posts about
new algorithmic developments
and improvements in
state of the art performance
in benchmark domains.
Search companies,
online retailers,
and hardware manufacturers
are exploring
RL solutions for their
day to day operations.
They are convinced
that online learning
will make them more efficient,
save them money, and keep
humans at a dangerous situations.
I would never have guessed
that there would be companies
dedicated to the study and
application of
reinforce learning.
It's really quite amazing.
However, the more
quickly things change,
the more important it is to
focus on the fundamentals.
Some of the ideas in RL
can be traced as far
back as Pavlov and
his drooling dogs.
Take almost any modern RL system
and take a closer look.
It's built from ideas
and algorithms that
pre-date this specialization
by a decade or two.
For example, at its heart
DQN combines Q learning,
neural networks, and
experienced replay.
Getting good performance
out of these systems,
however, requires
significant innovation.
We would never downplay
the importance of that work.
In fact, we want you to come to
understand these complex
enlarged learning systems.
To do so you first need
to understand the basics.
That's where this course
starts, with the fundamentals.
In this specialization,
we will cover most of
the main ideas used
in modern RL systems.
By the end, you'll implement
a neural network
learning system to
solve an infinite
state control task.
But we will start
with small problems.
We'll spend time discussing
the fundamental challenges
in reinforced learning and
our best ideas for solving them.
The problem of sequential
decision making represents
one of the greatest prizes
of our generation.
It seems appropriate to take
our time and get
the details right.
We begin our study
with a special case of
the reinforcement
learning problem
called multi-arm bandits.
The agent must decide
which choice generates
the best outcome or
reward on average.
This simpler instance of
the full RL problem
is perhaps the best
setting to understand and solve
challenges fundamental to RL.
This module provides
an introduction to
estimating values,
incremental learning,
exploration, non-stationarity,
and parameter tuning.
We continue to develop and
combine these ideas in
different ways over
the next four courses.
Let's get started.